feat: Editorial review: Speculation rules Chrome 121 (#32455)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/speculation_rules_api/index.md

</script>
```

Speculation rules using a `<script>` element need to be explicitly allowed in the {{httpheader("Content-Security-Policy")}} [`script-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/script-src) directive if the site includes it. This is done by adding the `'inline-speculation-rules'` source along with a hash- or nonce-source.

An HTTP header example:

```http
Speculation-Rules: "/rules/prefetch.json"
```

The text resource containing the speculation rules JSON can have any valid name and extension, but it must be served with an `application/speculationrules+json` MIME type.

> > **Note:** It is possible for both to be specified — all rules applied to a document are parsed and added to the document's speculation rules list.

Reviewer: Just a thought.
```suggestion
> **Note:** It is possible for the rules to be specified using both an inline script and the HTTP header — all rules applied to a document are parsed and added to the document's speculation rules list.
```

Author: I think this is a good call. I changed it a little bit, ending up with this:

> **Note:** Rules can be specified using both an inline script and the HTTP header simultaneously — all rules applied to a document are parsed and added to the document's speculation rules list.

You specify a different array to contain the rules for each speculative loading type (for example `"prerender"` or `"prefetch"`). Each rule is contained in an object that specifies for example a list of resources to be fetched, plus options such as an explicit {{httpheader("Referrer-Policy")}} setting for each rule. Note that prerendered URLs are also prefetched.

See [`<script type="speculationrules">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/speculationrules) for a full explanation of the available syntax.

### Using prefetching

> Including `prefetch` rules inside a `<script type=speculationrules>` element or `Speculation-Rules` header will cause supporting browsers to download the response body of the referenced pages, but none of the subresources referenced by the page. When a prefetched page is navigated to, it will render much more quickly than if it were not prefetched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including `prefetch` rules inside a `<script type="speculationrules">` element or `Speculation-Rules` header will cause supporting browsers to download the response body of the referenced pages, but none of the subresources referenced by the page. When a prefetched page is navigated to, it will render much more quickly than if it were not prefetched.
```

Author: I think I prefer to spell them out explicitly in both places — it's useful to reiterate what the approaches are, for people who've forgotten, and for those jumping around the article because they are specifically interested in prefetching or prerendering, and not necessarily reading the whole thing.

I'd added the double quotes, in both places.

The results are kept in a per-document in-memory cache. Any cached prefetches are discarded when you navigate away from the current page, except of course a prefetched document that you then navigate to.

> 

Reviewer: Below it says:

> **Note:** In the future an opt-in will be provided via the {{httpheader("Supports-Loading-Mode")}} header, but this was not implemented at the time of writing.

Is this now supported: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Supports-Loading-Mode#credentialed-prerender

Author: Yeah, but that's opt-in for prerendering. This section is talking about prefetching, which I believe still doesn't have an opt-in via `Supports-Loading-Mode`. I've updated the note to be a bit more explicit about what opt-in we are talking about.

### Using prerendering

> Including `prerender` rules inside a `<script type=speculationrules>` element or `Speculation-Rules` header will cause supporting browsers to fetch, render, and load the content into an invisible tab, stored in a per-document in-memory cache. This includes loading all subresources, running all JavaScript, and even loading subresources and performing data fetches started by JavaScript. Any cached prerenders and their subresources are discarded when you navigate away from the current page, except of course a prerendered document that you then navigate to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including `prerender` rules inside a `<script type="speculationrules">` element or `Speculation-Rules` header will cause supporting browsers to fetch, render, and load the content into an invisible tab, stored in a per-document in-memory cache. This includes loading all subresources, running all JavaScript, and even loading subresources and performing data fetches started by JavaScript. Any cached prerenders and their subresources are discarded when you navigate away from the current page, except of course a prerendered document that you then navigate to.
```

Author: See above; I added the quotes.

Prerendering uses memory and network bandwidth. If you prerender something the user doesn't navigate to, these are wasted (although the result may populate the HTTP cache if headers allow, allowing later use). The upfront cost of a prerender is much larger than the upfront cost of a prefetch, and other conditions could also make content unsafe to prerender (see [Unsafe speculative loading conditions](#unsafe_speculative_loading_conditions) for more details). As a result, you are encouraged to adopt prerendering more sparingly, carefully considering cases where there is a high likelihood of the page being navigated to, and you think the user experience benefit is worth the extra cost.

> **Note:** To put the amount of potential resource wastage in perspective, a prerender uses about the same amount of resources as rendering an {{htmlelement("iframe")}}.

> 

Reviewer: Below there is this line:

```
 - `<link rel="prerender">` is Chrome-specific and was never standardized, and the Chrome engineering team are in the process of sunsetting it. {{experimental_inline}}
```
The  {{experimental_inline}} at the end is wrong.

Author: Hrm, yeah, that is a bit weird. Removed now!

Sec-Purpose: prefetch;prerender
```

> Servers can respond based on this header, for example, to log speculative load requests, return different content, or even prevent speculative loading from happening. If a non-success response code is returned (not 200 or 304), then the page will not be prefetched/prerendered. This is the easiest way to prevent speculative loading, although it is usually a better approach to allow the prefetch/prerender, but delay any actions that should only happen when the page is actually viewed, using JavaScript.

Reviewer: Perhaps 

```suggestion
Servers can respond based on this header, for example, to log speculative load requests, return different content, or even prevent speculative loading from happening. If a non-success response code is returned (any HTTP status other than 200 or 304), then the page will not be prefetched/prerendered. This is the easiest way to prevent speculative loading, although it is usually a better approach to allow the prefetch/prerender, and use JavaScript to delay any actions that should only happen when the page is actually viewed.
```

Author: Yup, this is better. Updated!

### Unsafe prefetching

As mentioned earlier, we recommend adopting prefetching broadly, as the risk-to-reward ratio is fairly low — the potential for resource wastage is minimal, and the performance improvements can be significant. However, you need to make sure prefetched pages do not cause problems with the flow of your application.

When a prefetch is done, the browser downloads the response body of the referenced page via a single GET request, which the user may navigate to at a future time. Problems can arise specifically when the URL of the request performs a server-initiated side effect that you don't want to happen until the URL is navigated to.

For example:

> 

Reviewer: There is a line below that is a little confusing to me:
> If the functionality only occurs under normal circumstances when JavaScript runs, then prefetching is safe, since the JavaScript will not run until activation.

I would move this further down just before the final tip and change to something like.

> Prefetching is safe if all side effects of fetching the page result from JavaScript execution, since the JavaScript will not run until activation.

Author: Yup, I think that makes sense and results in a better flow. Done.

### Unsafe prerendering

> Prerendering is riskier to adopt than prefetching and should therefore be done more sparingly, in cases where it is worth it. There are more unsafe conditions to watch out for with prerendering so, while the reward is higher, the risk is too.

Reviewer: I can't give you a reason, but I'd probably do it like this:

```suggestion
Prerendering is more risky to adopt than prefetching and should therefore be done sparingly, in cases where it is worth it. There are more unsafe conditions to watch out for with prerendering so, while the reward is higher, the risk is too.
```

Author: Like it; updated!

  - If the above is not possible, then you could still rerun code after the page is activated to bring the app up-to-date again. For example, a highly dynamic flash sale page might rely on content updates coming in from a third-party library. If you can't delay the updates, you can always get fresh updates once the user views the page. Prerendered pages can be updated in real-time using the [Broadcast Channel API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Broadcast_Channel_API), or another mechanism such as {{domxref("fetch()")}} or a {{domxref("WebSocket")}}. This guarantees that the user will see up-to-date content after prerendering activation.
- Manage your third-party analytics scripts carefully — if possible, use scripts that are prerendering-aware (for example use the {{domxref("Document.prerendering")}} property to defer running on prerendering pages) such as Google Analytics or NewRelic.

>   - Note that cross-origin {{htmlelement("iframe")}} loads are delayed while prerendering, therefore most other third-party widgets such as ad tech are safe to use while prerendering.

Reviewer: So what does delay actually mean? Is the page fully rendered except for the iframe, and that renders once the page activates? Does that mean the user will see the empty iframe initially?

Similarly for an audio api, say. Does delay mean that the audio APIs don't work (some kind of error), or does it mean that the audio APIs work, but there is no output. If the first case you would need to actually defer calling the code, if the second the audio would play, so in an audiobook page (say) you would need to rewrite, or wait on page activation.

I think it is worth spelling that out somewhere. Sorry I missed it last time.

Reviewer: Nice job.

While API features that operate on session history (for example {{domxref("History")}} and {{domxref("Navigation")}}) can be called within prerendering documents, they only operate on the context's trivial session history. Consequently, prerendering documents do not take part in their referring page's joint session history. For example, they cannot navigate their referrer via {{domxref("History.back()")}}.

This design ensures that users get the expected experience when using the back button — i.e. that they are taken back to the last thing they saw. Once a prerendering document is activated, only a single session history entry gets appended to the joint session history, ignoring any previous navigations that happened within the prerendering browsing context. Going back one step in the joint session history — for example, by pressing the back button — takes the user back to the referrer page.

## Platform features deferred or restricted during prerender

> Because a prerendered page is opened in a hidden state, several APIs and other web platform features that cause potentially intrusive behaviors are not activated in this state, and are instead deferred until the page is activated or restricted altogether. In the small number of cases where this is not yet possible, the prerender is canceled.

Reviewer: If we explain what deferred means, we should link to it.

Author: I have restructured this intro a little bit, and added a definition of deferred.

- {{httpheader("Content-Security-Policy")}} `'inline-speculation-rules'` value {{experimental_inline}}
  - : Used to opt-in to allowing usage of `<script type="speculationrules">` to define speculation rules on the document being fetched.

> - {{httpheader("Speculation-Rules")}} {{experimental_inline}}

Reviewer: Also `No-Vary-Search`?

Author: `No-Vary-Search` is not a header defined by/specific to speculation rules, IMO.

Reviewer 2: Not exactly. But is it part of the nav speculation WICG experiment: https://wicg.github.io/nav-speculation/ and the only use case is speculation rules right now.

However I could easily see this growing in use beyond that if people worked on it!

Reviewer: Up to you @chrisdavidmills . As the doc https://pr32455.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/No-Vary-Search is written entirely in a cache-centric way, I tend to agree with you.

Author: Yeah, I'm gonna leave it out of the speculation rules page. From the way it is described, it does feel like it is useful without speculation rules as well as with.
